This report describes how the education system in the United States compares with education systems in the other Group of Eight (G-8) countries-Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the russian Federation, the United Kingdom-that are among the world's most economically developed countries and among the United States' largest economic partners. Comparative Indicators of Education in the United States and Other G-8 Countries: 2009 draws on the most current information about education from four primary sources: the Indicators of National Education Systems (INES) at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD); the Progress in International reading Literacy Study (PIrLS); the Program for International Student Assessment (PISA); and the Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS). Begun in 2002, the series is published on a biennial basis. It should be noted that most of the indicators in this report do not contain data for the complete set of G-8 countries. This is the result of a G-8 country not reporting data or not participating in a study. Also, the United Kingdom participated as one country in PISA, but in PIrLS and TIMSS England and Scotland participated as individual systems. Similarly, Canada participated as separate provinces in PIrLS 2006. Indicators that use PIrLS and TIMSS as data sources report England and Scotland separately. Indicators that use PIrLS data present results for the participating Canadian provinces in appendix tables (see appendix B). Thus, in indicators using PIrLS data and discussed in the summary that follows, the \"participating\" G-8 countries include England, France, Germany, Italy, the russian Federation, Scotland, and the United States. In indicators using TIMSS data, \"participating\" G-8 countries include England, Germany, Italy, Japan, the russian Federation, Scotland, and the United States at fourth grade, and England, Italy, Japan, the russian Federation, Scotland, and the United States at eighth grade. 1 In indicators using INES data, the \"reporting\" G-8 countries vary somewhat; these are shown in each indicator and noted in the summary. The main findings of this report are summarized below. These highlights are organized around the five major sections of the report-population and school enrollment; academic performance; context for learning; expenditure for education; and education returns: educational attainment and income.